---
layout: project
title: Birddog Innovations
date: 2013-10-19 00:00:00
category: current
summary: Small self-founded design & marketing business
banner: /assets/birddog/01.png
position: bottom center
navlogo: rgb(250,250,250)
navleft: rgb(255,153,85)
navright: rgb(250,250,250)
---

[Birddog](http://www.birddoginnovations.com) is a bit of an accidental venture. When my partner and I first started working together on design and photography, it was out of frustration with our current work situation. We were part of the same management training program, where we found ourselves bored out of our minds and completely unchallenged, despite our constant attempts to make more of the experience. At some point we realized that we both had quite a few overlapping interests, including web design and photography. Soon we were working together every night after work, sharing tricks and tips for everything from responsive layout to search engine optimization, and digging into the intricacies of Adobe Lightroom's post-processing capabilities.

As we continued to learn from eachother and improve our craft, we started to wonder if we couldn't find a way to convert our newfound talents into some additional revenue. Not soon after, we were lucky enough to hear from one of my partner's high school friends whose business needed a website and media pamphlet with professional photography for a property they were selling. They became our first client, and we've continue to do repeat business with them, as what started as a small side project has grown into an increasingly more viable small business.