---
layout: banner post
title: Clean Slate Anxiety
date: 2013-10-19 00:00:00
category: blog
summary: New site with a design facelift and fresh features, powered by Jekyll
banner: /assets/2013-10-19-clean-slate-anxiety/01.jpg
position: bottom center
---

I've finally done something I've been meaning to for a while and completely overhauled my personal website. It's something I'd fiddled around with for years, constantly changing the structure and design and jumping between content management solutions. As evidenced by the constant changes, something was never quite right about any given iteration. There was always something missing, and, as I progressively became more well-versed in web design, I finally resolved to rebuild from scratch. About the time I completed this process, a friend introduced me to Jekyll. So much for being finished with the constant changes...

This Jekyll-powered site is what I hope will be a more permanent solution (at least for the forseeable future). Having finally found my "ideal" set-up, I'm also excited to add a blog section to my site, in an effort to condense my content-generation to a single repository. Over the last few years I've been substantially reducing the time that I spend on pursuits that don't yield value on par with my time/effort contribution. I learned that one of my main motivations for my continued, albeit reduced, use of services like Facebook was to share my life adventures with friends and family (who always bothered me for more regular updates when my posts waned). And the rest of the content that I was generating was fractured across a handful of other services.

Now any online content that I generate will be acccessable in one place, making it much easier for me to manage, while removing all of the extraneous and distracting features inherent in all of the other places. Whether its professional details, portfolio pieces, stories of my adventures, or just assorted thoughts and ramblings, it'll all be available in a single organized space. I've also shifted to a more narrative-oriented format that bears many similarities to the popular publishing platform [Medium](http://www.medium.com). I absolutely love Medium, and it's been motivating me to start writing again. However, as I mentioned, I'd prefer to keep all of my things in one place, and present portfolio pieces and a more detailed bio alongside my ramblings. Consider this my own personal Medium.

You will notice that I have some posts preceding this one. While traveling the country as part of my management training program I had a lot of very cool adventures, and I purchased my first DSLR (indulging my inner shutterbug) to capture some of my experieinces. I got into a fairly rigorous habit of documenting my travels, photographically and in writing, and this seemed like the proper medium to share some of those narratives in a way that I never could before. I was also a bit intimidated by the idea of starting with an absolutely clean slate (I have the same problem with new notebooks), and back-filling content eased that anxiety. I expect to finish updating that back-dated content in the next few weeks, allowing me to turn my focus to generating more current content (as my work and projects allow). So, there you have it. I'm really looking forward to continuing to develop the site, and I hope you enjoy perusing it.